README.md, before:

# terminus-store prolog bindings

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/terminusdb/terminus_store_prolog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/terminusdb/terminus_store_prolog)

Prolog bindings for the [terminus-store](https://github.com/terminusdb/terminus-store/) Rust library.

## Requirements

* cargo
* gcc
* swi-prolog (with the include headers)

## Installing
This library is downloadable through SWI-Prolog's package management system. In a swipl instance, run
```prolog
pack_install(terminus_store_prolog).
```

Then you can use the library with
```prolog
use_module(library(terminus_store)).
```
## Compiling and running
If you need to compile manually, for example to test a change without reinstalling the pack, follow these instructions.

Use the wrapper script `./make` rather than the Makefile directly. The wrapper script will set up swipl environment variables which the build needs.

Also, use the provided `./run_swipl` script to start a test instance. This will ensure the foreign library will be located properly.
```
./make
./run_swipl
```

## Running the tests
```
./make
./run_swipl -g run_tests -g halt
```


## Examples

### Creating a named graph and adding a triple

```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_write(Store, Builder),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
nb_add_triple(Builder, "Subject", "Predicate", value("Object")),
nb_commit(Builder, Layer),
nb_set_head(DB, Layer).
```

### Add a triple to an existing named graph

```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
open_write(DB, Builder),
nb_add_triple(Builder, "Subject2", "Predicate2", value("Object2")),
nb_commit(Builder, Layer),
nb_set_head(DB, Layer),
```

### Query triples
```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
head(DB, Layer),
triple(Layer, Subject, Predicate, Object).
```

### Convert strings to ids and query by id
```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
head(DB, Layer),
subject_id("Subject", S_Id),
id_triple(Layer, S_Id, P_Id, O_Id),
predicate_id(Predicate, P_Id),
object_id(Object, O_Id).
```

Commit message:

Fix named graph creation example in the readme.
The example used the wrong predicate for graph creation, and did not
specify clearly that one needs to create an empty directory first.

This fixes issue #5.

README.md, after:

# terminus-store prolog bindings

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/terminusdb/terminus_store_prolog.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/terminusdb/terminus_store_prolog)

Prolog bindings for the [terminus-store](https://github.com/terminusdb/terminus-store/) Rust library.

## Requirements

* cargo
* gcc
* swi-prolog (with the include headers)

## Installing
This library is downloadable through SWI-Prolog's package management system. In a swipl instance, run
```prolog
pack_install(terminus_store_prolog).
```

Then you can use the library with
```prolog
use_module(library(terminus_store)).
```
## Compiling and running
If you need to compile manually, for example to test a change without reinstalling the pack, follow these instructions.

Use the wrapper script `./make` rather than the Makefile directly. The wrapper script will set up swipl environment variables which the build needs.

Also, use the provided `./run_swipl` script to start a test instance. This will ensure the foreign library will be located properly.
```
./make
./run_swipl
```

## Running the tests
```
./make
./run_swipl -g run_tests -g halt
```


## Examples

### Creating a named graph and adding a triple
Create a new directory (`testdir` in this example), then do the following:

```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_write(Store, Builder),
create_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
nb_add_triple(Builder, "Subject", "Predicate", value("Object")),
nb_commit(Builder, Layer),
nb_set_head(DB, Layer).
```

### Add a triple to an existing named graph

```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
open_write(DB, Builder),
nb_add_triple(Builder, "Subject2", "Predicate2", value("Object2")),
nb_commit(Builder, Layer),
nb_set_head(DB, Layer),
```

### Query triples
```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
head(DB, Layer),
triple(Layer, Subject, Predicate, Object).
```

### Convert strings to ids and query by id
```prolog
open_directory_store("testdir", Store),
open_named_graph(Store, "sometestdb", DB),
head(DB, Layer),
subject_id("Subject", S_Id),
id_triple(Layer, S_Id, P_Id, O_Id),
predicate_id(Predicate, P_Id),
object_id(Object, O_Id).
```
